#2 Why Socket.IO and not WebSocket?

Date: 2021-12-12

## Status

Accepted

## Context

When I first read the assessment, I knew instantly that this would require web sockets as this is the gold standard of implementing full duplex communication between your front end and back end. I knew socket.io exsited having had used in in the path in a C# project but I did a little research and found that Node JS had a WebSockets implementation that could also be used in the client. I am always a fan of using the simplest and most light weight libraries when developing. Having spent over a year trying to improve the performance of the corporate website at my current job, I have seen a fair share of tools and packages that offer all the functionnalities but are also super heavy and not efficient since we rarely need all of them. So my first choice was WebSocket. As you can see [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10112178/differences-between-socket-io-and-websockets), it is a lot more light weight.


## Decision

In the end, I decided to go with Socket.io. Here is why: Socket.IO is the standard in the industry. It offers more connection possibilities that WebSocket it is therefor more robust. And since it is used by a lot more people, there is more documentation and help when you have an issue. Also, having used it in the past, I was pretty familiar on how to set it up.

## Consequences

The main consequence is that Socket.IO client is more heavy for the client (Around 180KB insated of 1.5 KB). It is also slower (250ms instead of 50ms). But, it does offer more possibilities so I went with it in the end.