#1 Why a separate API/front end instead of Next.js integrated server?

Date: 2021-12-12

## Status

Accepted

## Context

NextJS being built on top of Node JS, it would make sense for a simple application like this one to have served the backend of this project from the integrated API in NextJS instead of having a separate API. 

## Decision

I decided to go against this for two reasons:

- First of all, I believe that it is always better in terms of future proofing and scalability to have a separate front end and back end. You can work on one without worrying on comprimising the other, and it easier to switch technologies in one or the other in the future. It also makes the code base much more simple to comprehend. 

- The second reason I decided to go this route is because this is what I have the most experience doing. All of my personnal projects are built with a JS framework in the frontend and a standalone Node JS API in the back end, usually using Lambda functions to make it more cost effective (Lambdas wouldn't have worked in this case since we would need them to be continously running, which defeats the purpose)

## Consequences

One consequence is that you have to run two separate applications at once instead of simply starting NextJS and letting everything run. Also, for the sake of simplicity in this project, both the API and the Front end are in the same repo but they would normally be in separate repositories. So this means two Github repositories to maintain, which can seen like unnecessary work for some.
