#3 Should we support files or only directories as arguments?

Date: 2021-12-12

## Status

Accepted

## Context

In the instructions of the assessment, it says verbatim: *The program needs to take as an argument one or multiple paths to local directories*. In the example usage under, it says: *node ./file-explorer.js ~/Desktop/ ./an/index-dir/*. This causes confusion as the instructions say we should take paths to directories (not files) and the example shows paths to files and directories.

## Decision

I decided to go with what the instructions of the assessments said since the second mention was only an **example** of how it should be used and not how exactly it should. I know this ambiguity opens things up to interpretation and it is probably expected. 

## Consequences

The main consequence of not supporting files is that if you add both files and directories to the invocation of the application, you will get an error saying that the the path *./file-explorer.js* is not a directory. We could have simply ignored it and displayed the other valid directories. I have always been against this methodology since it encourages the user to input data that is wrong but that will still work. Instead, by throwing an error, you explicitely let them know that files are not supported and that they should only input directories. They will then have to change it once and enter only valid inputs. At least, the programs let's you know which file is invalid which helps with correcting the issue.